Research/corpus.md, before:

# Corpus to use for Project

### Google audio set
source: https://research.google.com/audioset/

**General**
- 2.1 million annotated videos
- 5.8 thousand hours of audio
- 527 classes
- labeled 10s snippets

**Applause**
- Path: Human sounds > Human group actions
- Sub-categories: None
- Overall: 2247 videos - 6.2 hours
- est. accuracy: 90% (9/10)
- Details: https://research.google.com/audioset//dataset/applause.html

**Laughter**
- Path: Human sounds > Human voice > Laughter 
- Sub-categories: Baby laughter, Giggle, Snicker, Belly laugh, Chuckle/chortle
- Overall: 5696 videos - 15.8 hours
- est. accuracy: 100% (10/10)
- Details: https://research.google.com/audioset/dataset/laughter.html

<span style="color:darkred"> 

- Question from supervisor-meeting
    - how many snippets do we have for JUST LAUGH - the parent category? 

</span>

**Background**
_source: https://storage.googleapis.com/pub-tools-public-publication-data/pdf/45857.pdf_
- **Motivation**: Create a comprehensive dataset for AES like ImageNet is for tasks like object detection 
    >  Comparable problems such as object detection in images have
    >  reaped enormous benefits from comprehensive datasets – principally ImageNet

    > ImageNet appears to have been a
    > major factor driving these developments, yet nothing of this scale
    > exists for sound sources.
- **Ontology**: 
    - match immediate human understanding of a sound
    - individual categories should be distinguishable by a 'typical' listener
    - ideally sound classification based on sound alone (no visual or contextual cues)
    - Hierarchical structure - to aid annotators in most specific annotation 

**Strong labeled version**
- https://research.google.com/audioset/download_strong.html dataset
- which describes clips of varying length - manually chosen by annotators
- whole eval set and 5% of the training set - chosen at random
    - 290h training data
    - laughter: ~0.79h / ~48min 
    - applause: ~0.31h / ~20min

- conclusion states that a classifier trained on the large 'weakly-labelled' dataset can be improved via-fine-tuning
- evaluations were on fixed-size frames 
    - but strong labelling suggests directly predicting the segment boundaries  
        <span style="color:green">
        -> that's interesting for us!
        </span> 

<span style="color:darkred">

### The MAHNOB Laughter database - 2012
- can be found at: https://mahnob-db.eu/laughter/
- corresponding paper: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0262885612001461
- 3 hand 49 min
- 563 laughter episodes
- 849 speech utterances
- 51 acted laughs
- 67 speech–laughs
### Comment after meeting on Wednesday, 29.09.21

- Ondrey suggested against the AudioSet because it's recorded in a domain different to ours
    - he suggests using a corpus that contains meeting speech (like ICSI)

</span>

### Other corpora
- ICSI meetings database (2004)
    - http://www1.icsi.berkeley.edu/Speech/mr/icsimc_doc/overview.txt
    - recorded in a conference room with a microphone for each speaker
    - ~72 hours of transcribed meeting speech 
        - includes laughter 
        - does NOT include applause
- Switchboard (telephone conversations) (1997)
    - https://catalog.ldc.upenn.edu/LDC97S62
    - ~260 hours of transcribed speech 
        - release: August 1997
        - last transcription update: 01/29/03
        - includes laughter 
        - does NOT include applause
- SSPNet-Mobile Corpus(telephone conversations)
    - University of Glasgow usage only? 
    - ~12h of annotated phone conversations
        - contains laughter but no applause
- There are more of this type
    - usually the annotation contain laughter but not applause

Commit message:

Continued Research Review: 2 more papers + corpus notes
+ added some more info about ICSI data set
+ added notes for 2 more papers

Research/corpus.md, after:

# Corpus to use for Project

### Google audio set
source: https://research.google.com/audioset/

**General**
- 2.1 million annotated videos
- 5.8 thousand hours of audio
- 527 classes
- labeled 10s snippets

**Applause**
- Path: Human sounds > Human group actions
- Sub-categories: None
- Overall: 2247 videos - 6.2 hours
- est. accuracy: 90% (9/10)
- Details: https://research.google.com/audioset//dataset/applause.html

**Laughter**
- Path: Human sounds > Human voice > Laughter 
- Sub-categories: Baby laughter, Giggle, Snicker, Belly laugh, Chuckle/chortle
- Overall: 5696 videos - 15.8 hours
- est. accuracy: 100% (10/10)
- Details: https://research.google.com/audioset/dataset/laughter.html

<span style="color:darkred"> 

- Question from supervisor-meeting
    - how many snippets do we have for JUST LAUGH - the parent category? 

</span>

**Background**
_source: https://storage.googleapis.com/pub-tools-public-publication-data/pdf/45857.pdf_
- **Motivation**: Create a comprehensive dataset for AES like ImageNet is for tasks like object detection 
    >  Comparable problems such as object detection in images have
    >  reaped enormous benefits from comprehensive datasets – principally ImageNet

    > ImageNet appears to have been a
    > major factor driving these developments, yet nothing of this scale
    > exists for sound sources.
- **Ontology**: 
    - match immediate human understanding of a sound
    - individual categories should be distinguishable by a 'typical' listener
    - ideally sound classification based on sound alone (no visual or contextual cues)
    - Hierarchical structure - to aid annotators in most specific annotation 

**Strong labeled version**
- https://research.google.com/audioset/download_strong.html dataset
- which describes clips of varying length - manually chosen by annotators
- whole eval set and 5% of the training set - chosen at random
    - 290h training data
    - laughter: ~0.79h / ~48min 
    - applause: ~0.31h / ~20min

- conclusion states that a classifier trained on the large 'weakly-labelled' dataset can be improved via-fine-tuning
- evaluations were on fixed-size frames 
    - but strong labelling suggests directly predicting the segment boundaries  
        <span style="color:green">
        -> that's interesting for us!
        </span> 

<span style="color:darkred">

### The MAHNOB Laughter database - 2012
- can be found at: https://mahnob-db.eu/laughter/
- corresponding paper: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0262885612001461
- 3 hand 49 min
- 563 laughter episodes
- 849 speech utterances
- 51 acted laughs
- 67 speech–laughs
### Comment after meeting on Wednesday, 29.09.21

- Ondrey suggested against the AudioSet because it's recorded in a domain different to ours
    - he suggests using a corpus that contains meeting speech (like ICSI)

</span>

### Other corpora
- ICSI meetings database (2004)
    - http://www1.icsi.berkeley.edu/Speech/mr/icsimc_doc/overview.txt
    - CHECK KNOWN PROBLEMS SECTION FOR FINAL EVALUATION
    - recorded in a conference room with a microphone for each speaker
    - ~72 hours of transcribed meeting speech 
        - includes laughter 
        - does NOT include applause
    - 53 unique speakers
    - 3-10 participants (avg. 6)
    - speaker IDs are of the from [m/f][n/e][NNN] where
        - [m/f] : [male/female]
        - [e/n] : [english-native/non-english-native] 
        - [NNN] : [speaker number] 
    - 901-908: are the ID's of 'other speakers' which occur very rarely
    - xNN: is the ID of the computer synthesized voice
    - preambles.mrt contains useful information about all 75 meetings
        - like list of participants and notes on any anomalies that occurred during the meeting 
        - there is also a preamble tag in each of the other .mrt files
- Switchboard (telephone conversations) (1997)
    - https://catalog.ldc.upenn.edu/LDC97S62
    - ~260 hours of transcribed speech 
        - release: August 1997
        - last transcription update: 01/29/03
        - includes laughter 
        - does NOT include applause
- SSPNet-Mobile Corpus(telephone conversations)
    - University of Glasgow usage only? 
    - ~12h of annotated phone conversations
        - contains laughter but no applause
- There are more of this type
    - usually the annotation contain laughter but not applause
